Modifying program installation in Windows 10 to install applications on external drives

In my experience most software defaults to installing on the C drive. Most modern computers have limited drive space and they are hard to upgrade. This may cause frustration in engineering as often the software used is big in size. As a student you need to make decisions on what is needed on your computer and what can be sacrificed. Some software will allow you to change the installation directory during installation which makes life easier however, I have found through my research it will still leave parts of itself on the C drive.
Below I will show a process on moving these folders to an external drive and create a link to point to that location. This will help you save on disk space. With this process I have been able to move over 70GB off my computer’s C drive and onto an external SD card. Keep in mind you need a good SD card. The SD card must be fast and reliable, and this usually means, expensive but a good investment.
When a program is installed it is usually installed under the following folders Program Files, Program Files (x867), common folder within these two program file folders and AppData folder in your user folder. The AppData folder is hidden so you must change the parent folder settings to unhide.
	The process is easy. After normal installation, identify the folders that were created in Program Files, Program Files (x867), common, and AppData folders. You will then delete these folders, create a link and undelete the deleted folders into the SD card. I try to keep the same folder structure on the SD card as in the C drive to make it easier on me to make the changes. Second, I usually delete a folder, create the link and undelete one folder at a time so I can avoid mistakes. If the process requires multiple folders to be moved, ill do one or two folders and then test program to make sure it is working properly.
	As mentioned, start by deleting the folder. You then form a link by using mklink command in cmd prompt. Make sure you are running as system administrator. Type the following: mklink /J “old location” “new location”. For example, mklink /J “C:\Program Files\Autodesk” “D:\Program Files\Autodesk”. Hit enter and you will get a confirmation message. Undelete the folder to the new location and you are set.
	There are two parameters used with mklink, /J and /D. Although the internet will mention using either with this process, the /J seems to work best for me. It supposed to be a difference between making a Junction and creating a symbolic link. I tried to understand it but was a little outside of my experience. Most of the software I have transferred to the SD card works perfectly. However, there are some issues.
	You cannot transfer the whole Program File folder since it contains windows files and programs that are necessary and running. Windows will not allow you delete or move a file if it is being used. This can also happen with persistent software. Instead trying to track what service is running and disable it, you can place the computer in Safe mode. This will shut down everything except for windows essential programs and will let you complete the process for 3rd party software.
	Some software may have issues. So far, the only two pieces of software I had issues with are Microsoft Office and WhatsApp. WhatsApp does not work when transferred. I have not found the reason why at this point. As for Microsoft Office it will not open files in protected mode. Microsoft Office goes in protected mode with any file downloaded from the internet. You can turn off using protected mode and it works. Microsoft says it is not a good thing to turn off protected mode, but from my experience I have found it to be more of an annoyance than a benefit. On the other hand, don’t disable blocking macros from being ran, that is a security issue unless you are downloading from a trusted the source.
	Overall, it is not a complicated process, however it is manual. Understanding the process, taking your time and testing will help you through this process.
